The Krasnoyarsk
Zheleznodorozhny District Court
has begun consideration of the criminal case
against Andrey Stupnikov, a peaceful believer
accused of extremism.
He is accused of a crime
under Article 282.2(1)
of the Criminal Code
—namely, organizing the activity
of an organization
that has been liquidated by a court decision
for carrying out
so-called extremist activity.
Andrey Stupnikov was not one
of the founding members of such organizations
and was never a member
of any of their agencies.
The religion was not banned.
This was specifically pointed out
by the court
that ruled to liquidate the legal entities.
But the indictment states:
“Andrey Stupnikov took steps to maintain
“and increase the number of followers
of the said religious teaching.”
But a religion cannot exist without followers
who profess certain beliefs.
Andrey and Olga
have been married for 27 years.
They say that Bible knowledge
makes their life strong and happy.
But on July 3, 2018,
their happy family life was disrupted
when Andrey was detained
by the Federal Security Service (FSB).
My wife and I arrived at the airport
at four o’clock in the morning.
When we were at the check-in counter,
the FSB officers
approached us
and said that I was under investigation.
Andrey was interrogated
by the FSB, appeared in court,
and then spent eight months
in pretrial detention.
He was prevented
from seeing his wife.
Officials tried to coerce him
into incriminating himself.
The authorities shouted and threatened
that they could, for example, increase
the charges against me to include terrorism.
Then a difficult situation arose.
For some time,
I stopped receiving letters from my wife
but I received letters from others.
Then a man came
and asked me:
“So, what happened to your wife?
Do you know?”
Later, I realized why this was happening.
They told me that I could return
to my wife very soon
if I agreed to cooperate or plead guilty.
Andrey acknowledges
that the presence
of hundreds of fellow believers
who came to court to encourage him
was a great support.
To the discerning mind,
it is obvious
that law-enforcement agencies
have crossed all boundaries
by labeling peaceful,
law-abiding citizens as “extremists.”
It’s clear that Andrey Stupnikov
did not engage in any extremist activities.
He did not incite anyone
to violence or discrimination,
much less employ violent means himself.
All he did was meet with fellow worshippers,
participate in religious services,
and share his religious views with others.
Why are such peaceable individuals
being framed as criminals
and imprisoned for six years?
There are many opinions on that question,
one of which is that they are an easy target
for law-enforcement officers
who have quotas to meet
in their battle against extremism.
At present, Andrey is home.
His current pretrial restrictions
prohibit certain activities.
And although Andrey’s life has changed a lot
in the past year, he says
that persecution will not force him
to renounce his faith in God.
Reflecting on my life
since I dedicated myself to God,
I wouldn’t change anything.
Not one person can say
that I have ruined his life
or done anything bad to him.
I’m proud to know Jehovah
and to have him by my side.
The judicial proceedings
against Andrey Stupnikov
are well underway,
and we will likely find out very soon
if the judge will render
a fair and independent decision
by acquitting a person
who simply believes in God.